---
published: true
title: "I am NOT Superman!"
id: "149"
slug: "i-am-not-superman"
author: rv
date: 2006-11-10 05:10
categories: Uncategorized
---
I got my re-entry permit! It went a lot faster than last time, too. Last year I went with Jose and we had to wait for more than an hour before we got our re-entry permits. This time I went with Zach and we finished in 20 minutes. During that 20 minutes we went for breakfast, and when we came back it was our turn, so the timing was perfect :) Holland, here I come!<br /><br />Meh, Holland. What the hell am I supposed to do there? Stay at home and sleep I guess. I miss my 'sleep until the afternoon and play games until 3 in the night' rhythm from when I was still a student. Maybe I should go to university next year, I will be able to catch up on my sleep ^_^<br /><br />Besides that I still have to decide what I'm going to do for the long weekend in the end of November. We have a national holiday on thursday, but none on friday, and I'm not sure if I want to use one of my paid holidays for friday, since I will have another shortage of paid holidays after my trip to Holland :'( I need more holidays.. Maybe I will go to Izu by myself for saturday and sunday of that weekend. Most of the guys will be doing stuff for all 4 days that weekend, so I will not be able to join them. Besides, I've seen most of the places that they want to go already.<br /><br />It's really getting colder here now. Sometimes. This morning it felt really cold and like winter, but in the afternoon and in the sun it's still around 20 degrees celcius, and quite warm.<br /><br />We are making a movie! It started as some silly idea, but it looks like we are really going to do it O_O. The script is just about finished, and most of the scenes are filled in nicely. There are some gaps but we can leave it to improvisation on the spot to fix those. All we need now is a camera, lots of props and clothes and people that are willing to cooperate :)<br /><br />Something cool on wikipedia: <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cognitive_biases">https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_cognitive_biases</a><br />There's lots of interesting information there on how the human mind works, and how we tend to see things differently from reality, and misinterpret situations based on our own best interest. Quite interesting.