---
published: true
ts: 2025-05-24 14:48:08
date: 2025-05-24 14:48
title: Rain
categories: Thoughts
tags: japan
type: article
author: randy
slug: rain
---
<p>Well, the weather took a turn for the worst. No cycling today. I&#8217;m flying back on Tuesday morning. My original plan for this trip was to send the bike back on Sunday &#8211; I&#8217;d read online that I could get it delivered to the airport in a day, but then the hotel people told me that it would take a minimum of three days, and that&#8217;s only for luggage that is a maximum of 200cm, length + width + height, which my bicycle bag exceeds. So I&#8217;m cycling back on Monday. I hope it doesn&#8217;t rain..</p>



<p>I had a good quiet day to reflect on why I came here. It&#8217;s been almost ten years since my bike and I last came to Japan by ourselves. A lot of bad shit happened since then. Good things too. But, all of it, things that changed me. I&#8217;d forgotten how to relax, how to enjoy life. I&#8217;d gotten very used to just anticipating the next disaster rather than enjoying the moment. I&#8217;m not quite over that yet. But I&#8217;m learning.</p>



<p>I&#8217;m not trying to hide from that, from the person I&#8217;ve become. Months before I decided to come back here, I considered the idea of going back for a trip, and I realized that I didn&#8217;t need it. I was getting to where I wanted to be on my own, without a need to come back here. I&#8217;d put the idea out of my mind since then, until one day I suddenly felt pretty damn good and thought to myself &#8220;I feel like doing a little cycling trip&#8221;. So I did. It&#8217;s not a pilgrimage, it&#8217;s not a quest for nostalgia goggles, it&#8217;s just a fun thing the present version of me likes to do. And, as I mentioned before, I can&#8217;t think of a better place to cycle than right here in Japan.</p>



<p>A part of my personal journey, perhaps a large part, is about becoming more comfortable with the different versons of myself. Japan is really where I grew up, if you can call post-university life growing up. When I came back to the Netherlands after Japan, I was a completely different person. There was the child-like Dutch version of me, and then there was the twenty-something, adventure-seeking bohemian. That&#8217;s who I was when I first went to England, but that gradually morphed into the boring old middle-aged me that I am right now. There was definitely a point in the last ten years where my significant other and I stopped saying the word &#8216;normaling&#8217; ironically and just got on with the groceries..</p>



<p>But now that I definitely can&#8217;t hide from middle age any more, it feels like things have stabilized a little. I haven&#8217;t forgotten who I was before, but I&#8217;ll acknowledge that I am not the same person I used to be. I also actively don&#8217;t want to forget those past personalities, so in a way this trip is perhaps an attempt to make peace with my past self/selves. An attempt at proving to myself that, if I try, I can perhaps almost be one functioning adult. Perhaps.</p>



<p>The weather should clear up tomorrow afternoon. There should be just about enough time for a nice little cycle around the neighborhood before I head back. It&#8217;s been a good trip so far. I genuinely feel ten years younger compared to how I felt a month ago. Cycling is good for you.</p>



<p>Unadulterated. Unashamed. Unambiguous. Unapologetic. I&#8217;m still 100% pure me.</p>