---
published: true
title: "A car"
id: "6206"
slug: "a-car"
author: rv
date: 2014-07-09 15:12
categories: Daily Life,Thoughts
tags: cars
---
I don't feel like wasting words today, so I'll get straight to the point: <strong>life is exceedingly limited if you don't have a car.</strong>

These are excuses I've used in the past to justify my not having a car:
<ul>
	<li>Public transport is convenient enough</li>
	<li>I don't need big grocery shopping if there's small shops nearby that have what I need (this excuse kind of ceased to work after I moved to the UK)</li>
	<li>I don't want to deal with foreign language paperwork needed for a car purchase (whilst I was in Japan)</li>
	<li>Money</li>
	<li>Lifestyle</li>
</ul>
The last is perhaps not exactly an excuse, but more of a consequence. People with cars go to different places than people without cars. There's some overlap between places, but in the end you're severely limiting your options if you don't have a car.

Here's what you can't do (or can only do less comfortably) without a car:
<ul>
	<li>Going to a superstore outside of town for big grocery shopping.</li>
	<li>Buying large things for your home at a DIY (online ordering just isn't a very good alternative if you're not at home to receive the delivery).</li>
	<li>Picking people up from the airport or leave your car at the airport for a weekend trip.</li>
	<li>Doing day trips to faraway places or places that don't have good public transport connections.</li>
	<li>Not getting annoyed at people on public transport.</li>
</ul>
It is possible to live without a car. But you'll limit the places available to you. You can still go anywhere, and even if you pay for public transport and/or taxis, you 'll probably end up being cheaper off than by owning a car. Money is not the issue, time spent in/outside of your comfort zone is. This is why a car, still, even in car-unfriendly countries, is freedom.