---
published: true
title: "Accelerator"
id: "976"
slug: "accelerator"
author: rv
date: 2009-03-15 14:48
categories: Daily Life,Photography,Tech
---
It's strange, but my life never really manages to stabilize around the same level. It always really sucks or it's really great. And on that note: after three months of total inactivity life suddenly seems to have gained some momentum again. In the next two months I will be doing skydiving, a trip to South Africa (possibly!) and a trip to Bangkok (possibly!). As the Chinese would say: "Fa Kin Su Pa!". 

Besides that I've had a fairly lazy weekend. I've been trying to make sense out of the <a href="https://www.amazon.com/Digital-Image-Processing-Rafael-Gonzalez/dp/013168728X/ref=pd_bbs_sr_1?ie=UTF8&amp;s=books&amp;qid=1237127713&amp;sr=8-1" target="_blank">new book</a> I bought on digital image processing, but I'm still lacking on the math part of the book. What I really need is a 'fourier transform for dummies' book, but it doesn't seem to exist.. Still, it's fairly interesting material (if not a bit dry) and it managed to fill in a lot of gaps in my knowledge. Not entirely, but at least I know now where to get more information whenever I run into a problem that I can't solve. A lot of hyperlinks have been added in my brain, even if I don't yet fully understand the theory. 

Last unrelated note: been watching <a href="http://anidb.net/perl-bin/animedb.pl?show=anime&amp;aid=3574" target="_blank">Higurashi no Naku koro ni</a> and it's sequel. I love it. I'm also watching <a href="http://anidb.net/perl-bin/animedb.pl?show=anime&amp;aid=6176" target="_blank">Sora wo Kakeru Shoujo</a> which is hilarious at times and sometimes a parody of the genre in itself. Still, I'm really looking for something a bit darker. It's been a while since I've seen an anime the likes of Ergo Proxy or Kaiba, and I do miss that. I guess I'd better look some more. I've been 'away' from anime for the past 1 or 2 years, and I thought I had lost my interest. After recently picking it up again I've realized that it's pretty much impossible for me to lose interest in anime. The variety is just too large: there's always something I'm bound to be interested in.

Finally, to add in a bit of photography to this post: there seems to be a photography convention in Tokyo at the end of this month, and it seems that all the big companies are showing up. I might drop by to take a look as well. I can't say I've gone out of my way to try and take great pictures lately, but I'm still interested in the new stuff. Canon's new tilt-shift lenses in particular look brilliant, but I'd need a fortune to own one, and I'm not quite ready to spend that much on my hobby. Quite the contrary, in fact: I've been playing with some micro four-thirds cameras and I really like them. They're so tiny but still so useful. If I didn't have all this Canon equipment already I would consider switching to that, but I already have too much stuff and I don't want to get rid of it. Even my old Canon 400D camera is still working wonders. The 400D is actually quite light and small. I've been using it in combination with the huge 800mm mirror lens and it works perfectly. The balance and weight is just perfect, and my pictures come out noticably sharper because the center of balance lies more closer to the lens and I have to use less force to point it in the right direction. Hurray for small cameras!