---
published: true
title: "Screw it!"
id: "1913"
slug: "screw-it"
author: rv
date: 2010-01-14 11:28
categories: Cycling,Photography,Spirit of Japan
tags: canon,cycling,power banana
---
Finally got word from my last chance on getting fenders for my bicycle: they've already arrived! The fenders are here in Atsugi, but apparently the manufacturer forgot to send the customized screws needed to attach them, so I have to wait a few days until my bicycle will be complete once more. (PS, Sorry Martin for using the word fender instead of mudguard :P. I might side with the yankees on this one..)

I want to treat myself to a new lens this year, and I want to get rid of my 18-200mm. The image quality is visibly poor, even to me, and I usually don't notice image quality issues very much. I've got four options in mind for improvement:
<ol>
	<li>Canon EF 24-105mm f/4 IS L</li>
	<li>Canon EF-S 15-85mm f/3.5-5.6 IS</li>
	<li>Canon EF-S 17-55mm f/2.8 IS</li>
	<li>Canon EF 24-70mm f/2.8 L</li>
</ol>
I went around a bit already, trying them out at Yodobashi camera, and I've eliminated the last two. The 17-55m does not have enough range, and the 24-70mm does not have IS and is too heavy. I'm really undecided between the other two choices though. The 24-105mm has better image quality and just feels great, very solid. It also has f/4 aperture even at 105mm. On the other hand the 15-85mm is small, light, and the range is just about perfect. Unfortunately the 15-85's  image quality is slightly worse than the L lens, especially at large apertures.

Preparation status: Yes we can!

Items obtained:
<ul>
	<li>tie wraps</li>
	<li>bicycle computer, wireless (for speed, distance etc.)</li>
	<li>Funky little stretchy rubber thingie that can attach any device to the handlebar (eg. iPod)</li>
	<li>Maglite mini flashlight</li>
	<li>Headlight (as in: mountable on a person's head)</li>
	<li>Easy-to-wear jeans (for cycling)</li>
	<li> Small power outlet splitter thingie</li>
</ul>
I should lose some weight...