---
published: true
title: "Brainns"
id: "3239"
slug: "brainns"
author: rv
date: 2010-08-13 22:08
categories: Daily Life,Thoughts
tags: mead
---
I'm still in Antwerp, enjoying the city in a leisurely way. Oh, and today was my birthday! A fact casually acknowledged in real life and then quickly forgotten, much like the way in which we are experiencing Antwerp, I guess. I never really cared for my own birthday. It's supposed to be a momentous occassion and a nice day to reflect on your life, but I do too much of that already &gt;_&lt;;

Anyway, I met Brian here in Antwerp and we've been focusing on the design of a nifty piece of software that will... do something that will be a surprise :) It's an interesting project that involves quite a lot of our personal interests as well as a good challenge in many different ways. It's not just the technical part; the entire process  of software development from idea (or selection of idea, actually) all the way until actual product is what we're doing. It's been a while since my brain's worked on full power, and I very much appreciate the change in pace. We've got two weeks, and so far not a single line of code has been written. Because of that I am quite confident that we'll end up with a good program in the end.

Yesterday we went looking for a library and ended up in a peculiar high-security library instead of the public library. We even got free library cards, which we needed to even enter the place, after leaving behind our coats and backpacks. It was a rather dreary place though. On the way back we found a store with all kinds of viking things inside, and a creepy cellar with inside it a knight's armor and some axes. We bought a bottle of <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mead" target="_blank">mead</a> there which I am finding delicious. It's also making me sleepy. More later, for now I'm g