---
published: true
title: "久しぶりだな。"
id: "5224"
slug: "%e4%b9%85%e3%81%97%e3%81%b6%e3%82%8a%e3%81%a0%e3%81%aa%e3%80%82"
author: rv
date: 2012-10-27 13:38
categories: Cycling,UK
---
[jsgallery size="large"]

Today was perhaps the first time I really went out and 'cyclographed' in the UK. It's a bit hard to define why today felt like cyclographing and all my previous trips on my old bike near London didn't feel like it. Mostly it's the environment, I guess. There's less busy streets here, less traffic lights, less buildings everywhere. The roads are winding and you can go a  long way without having to stop for anything. At the same time there's those interesting junctions that make you wonder where a road will lead to, unlike closer to the city where everything's square and everything ends up in the same places. And finally, there's the hills.

There's so many hills here, way more than around Atsugi actually. Cycling here is going to make me a lot stronger. There's no mountains though, nor are there massive landmarks that you can use to orientate yourself. I always found comfort in relating my position to some distant mountain or tower, but there's no such thing here. I still have to get used to that.

The bike is good. Everything is working as expected. The weather is getting worse but I don't want to let that stop me. Even though today was massively windy and quite cold, I brought the right clothes and managed to settle into a sustainable pace. I hope I can keep my motivation up through the winter. Then, perhaps in the spring, I can start thinking about the next big cycling trip :)