---
published: true
title: "A day off"
id: "4848"
slug: "a-day-off"
author: rv
date: 2012-05-05 00:17
categories: Thoughts
---
I took today off to think about things. Here are some random bullet points.
<ul>
	<li>London is cold and gray and rainy. Perfect for thinking. Shit for living.</li>
	<li>The act of leaving the house and not knowing where you'll go today is a wonderful experience that I cannot do without.</li>
	<li>Not letting any conscious decision guide my activities today, I assumed I'd be spending time playing games, cleaning up the house or writing my startup pitch. Instead, I found myself in central London, wandering around.</li>
	<li>My current apartment is not home. I will not feel at home in London until I move.</li>
	<li>Perhaps I should try to get seriously wasted on alcohol and see if I can achieve a meditative state.</li>
	<li>Fast-food chains in a big city provide a beautiful loud anonymity that truly gets me at ease, and in a different mental state from when I'm at home.</li>
	<li>I want more random encounters in my life.</li>
	<li>A part of me wants to get mugged just to see how I'd react.</li>
	<li>For the past months I thought my memory has been getting worse. On a day without stress, it's better again. Stress is preventing me from accessing my memories.</li>
	<li>It's not just the memories that stress affects, it's the personality as well. I am literally a different person under stress, lacking the available brainpower to be able to watch myself from the third person while I go about life. Without observation there can be no analysis, no solution and no improvement. Stress is stagnation.</li>
	<li>If I had shitloads of money, I would: slack off for months, go cycling in various countries, move back to Japan, and eventually end up being a programmer again.</li>
	<li>Approaching 30. Everyone I know is getting married, settling down and having children. I am the only one left out.</li>
</ul>
&nbsp;