---
published: true
title: "Chaos"
id: "4206"
slug: "chaos"
author: rv
date: 2011-06-23 11:22
categories: Daily Life,Thoughts
---
It would be an understatement to say that my life is quite busy right now. I've decided to move back to London and I've only got 2 weeks to find a place to stay. I'm in Holland right now, but will be taking the JLPT level 2 on July the 3rd. Worst case scenario is that I won't be able to find a room in time, which means I'll have to spend money on flying back to Holland, and then back to London once I do find a room.

There is method to this madness, albeit slight. This may surprise everyone who knows me, but I will actually be trying to find a job! Ha ha. No, I'm serious. I'm looking for a contract or short term position in London to finance some more travelling. I'm still quite reluctant to let go of that holiday mood that has been so ever-present in my life, even considering alternatives like staying at a campsite with my bicycle or buying a cheapass camper van. As someone told me recently, maybe I do have a bit of commitment issues. ;)

A contract job would be the perfect compromise for me. 3 to 6 months working on a project will undoubtedly be more exciting than having a permanent job, and if I manage to land one I'm sure it'll pay well too. At the same time I"ll be living my life out of a suitcase. It's not quite as minimalistic as touring on my bicycle, but it'll have to do. And I get to bring a bigger laptop.

So much to do! Finding a room, finding a job, cleaning up the mess I am leaving behind in Holland, buying things I'll need for my new lifestyle. It's a wholly different feeling from 6 months ago, when I was preparing to settle down in grey London forever and ever. This time there's the prospect of excitement and summer, and perhaps something more than that as well. I really can't complain about anything. It's been a long time since I felt this good about my life.