---
published: true
title: "What if?"
id: "180"
slug: "what-if"
author: rv
date: 2007-02-04 01:27
categories: Uncategorized
---
On this Sunday morning I suddenly find myself thinking about what would have happened if I had been accepted as an intern for AK the first time I applied. I started as a contractor here last year, but a year before I applied for an internship, and I was not chosen. I wonder how my life would have turned out if I was accepted then.<br /><br />I guess I would feel a lot less free in Japan, having to do stuff for my study, and having the security that I would have to go back after one year or a half year. Back in Holland I would finish my study, and I doubt that I would ever think about going to Japan again after my study. I would just get a life in Holland.<br /><br />But that didn't happen. I was accepted as a contractor, and they offered me a chance to stay longer. Without much of a life of my own to return to in Holland I decided to stay in Japan longer. After all, why throw away the life you have here for a life you do not yet have in another country? Even though I'm thinking like this, I do realize, now more than ever, that this is temporary, and I have to get a real life. Some time. Somewhere. Somehow. Japan made me realize, though, that there is a lot more to the world than just Holland, and there are options and chances everywhere? Why not take a chance?<br /><br />----<br /><br />Today I'm going to Akihabara, to do all the geeky stuff I haven't been doing for the past six months. My friend Aaron! Where are you? Which anime are you watching? Which manga are you reading? We shall meet again sometime in Akihabara!