---
published: true
title: "感謝　(kansha)"
id: "375"
slug: "%e6%84%9f%e8%ac%9d%e3%80%80kansha"
author: rv
date: 2007-11-15 11:00
categories: Uncategorized
---
Kansha. Japanese for gratitude. Who to thank for things if you don't believe in god? Yourself? Can't thank yourself for making the sun rise. I guess I'll thank the universe then. Thank you, universe.<br /><br />Today I made a time lapse movie of the sunset at work. I put it online at <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JjVoZ0-0nCg">youtube</a>. I was a bit pissed off after I saw the result, because the weather was hazy all day and the sun was too bright for most of the movie. The camera was pointed too much to towards the sky as well. As I started to become more pissed off, I suddenly realized how lucky I really am, and how I often fail to notice that recently. It put me back in my place, I guess.<br /><br />Only four years ago. I was a student in a local university in my province. I had a crappy digital camera, didn't know anything about shooting photo's, and coming to Japan had never even occurred to me. Not to mention the fact that I was geeky, living at home, and never went abroad without my parents.<br /><br />Fast forward to now. I am 23. I have been living in Japan for 2 years. I have grown enormously, as a person and as an engineer. I enjoy traveling by myself, doing crazy trips, taking pictures with a DSLR, and enjoying spending time with international friends. My workplace is great. I work at the 22nd floor of a huge skyscraper without any other tall buildings around. The view is spectacular at clear days. I can see Mount Fuji every day from my room on the 5th floor and my working place at the 22nd floor. How many people can say that they've even seen mount Fuji once? I am lucky.<br /><br />Only three months ago I was so happy, because I found some software that allowed me to take pictures through my camera automatically through my laptop. It was a great discovery. A couple of weeks ago I discovered the wonderful CHDK hacked firmware for my camera, which allows me to script photo shooting without the need for a laptop. I've been using this ever since, and it's truly great. I will have many chances in the future to make cool movies. No need to rush.<br />All I have now is gratitude. That sudden instant, where I realize: "hey, what the f*ck, I'm in Japan! What the bleep am I doing here!?!". It puts things back into perspective, and that is something I have been missing for a long time.