---
published: true
title: "Mind occupation"
id: "374"
slug: "mind-occupation"
author: rv
date: 2007-11-13 11:20
categories: Uncategorized
---
Recently I don't give myself time to think. I work all day and when I come home I have so much things to do and to plan that I don't have 'free' time. That in itself is not so bad, but recently I am getting more free time at work after finishing a busy period. It kind of frustrates me that at home I don't have enough time to do what I want, but at work I don't have enough want to do with my time.<br /><br />Anyway, I'm posting here because of two things. The first is an interesting <a href="http://search.japantimes.co.jp/cgi-bin/fl20071113zg.html">article </a>I found on Japan Times about how foreigners are treated by the police here in Japan. It talks about how foreigners can be stopped for no reason and are then asked to show their alien registration cards (or gaijin cards, as we all affectionately call it, even though gaijin (outside person) is a rude way of saying gaikokujin (the official way of saying 'person from outside the country')) for no reason. I have to say that it never happened to me, but I have heard stories from friends who had it happen to them. In fact, the police has been extremely friendly with me, now that I think about it. It happened to me several times that I was carrying something or someone that I was not supposed to carry on a bicycle, but the police never fined me, or even asked me for an alien registration card. They just told me that I was not supposed to do that, and that I should be more careful next time. The same thing happened to me once when my lights weren't working. I guess I'm the exception that proves the rule.<br /><br />The second thing is Android. It's Google's new mobile platform, and they're promoting it heavily. They just released the Android SDK for their mobile OS, and they're awarding massive money for people who will develop applications for it, even before the OS has been released. I might try my hand at that if I can deal with getting more 'free' time at home. Actually, I have a game concept already half finished, which I could continue to develop for Android. But I need time and a will to program. If I'm programming for the company all day I don't have yaruki (やる気) to program at home. Anyway, the platform looks quite cool, a design I, as an object oriented obsessor, quite like. Take a look at it if you're interested: <a href="http://code.google.com/android/">Android</a>